# OIP-24: OKChain validator management platform 

| Author   | ambition1921 |
| :------- | ------------------------ |
| Status   | Draft                    |
| Type     | Application              |
| Category | Application              |
| Created  | 2020-7-20                |

## 1. Introduction

For the validator administrators, it is particularly important to obtain the status information of validator at the first time, such as whether it is jailed, the amount of votes changed and daily produce block income. Blockchain is different from the common relational database. Much status information of validator cannot be directly obtained from the blockchain. Okchain helper can help validator administrators to get the status information of validator comprehensive and convenient. It provides validator server status change event promption, vote amount change event promption and daily income promption. At present, it supports two kinds of promption modes: emergency events are prompted by telephone and wechat messages in non emergency cases.

## 2. Summary

This OIP aims to provide a validator manage platform for okexchain validator's user.

## 3. Proposal

#### a. Three kinds of event promption

* validator server status: whether it is jailed.
* validator daily income: Okchain helper platform calculates the income generated by the validator in the past 24 hours at 00:00 every morning and prompt it to the administrator.
* validator votes change: When the amount of votes of super node changes more than 5%, the platform will automatically send relevant prompts to the validator administrator. When the delegate user of validator changes, the platform will automatically send relevant prompt to validator administrator

#### b. Two promption method

* Emergency events: Telephone
* Non emergency events: Wechat Message

## 4. Status

This OIP has been completed.   
[Introduction and demonstration video website](https://v.youku.com/v_show/id_XNDc5OTA4MTUxMg==.html) 
